---
author: Matías Mirabelli
lang: en
messages:
  otherFormats: Other formats
...

---

## About me

I was raised in Mataderos, City of Buenos Aires, Argentina. When I was ten I
received my first computer: a Pentium 386 with Windows 3.11. Since then
computing was one of my main activities together with electronics. My family
gave me a new computer when I finished primary school: an AMD-K6-2 500MHz. That
year I started the electronics-oriented middle school and there was a teacher
that gave me a full version of Visual Basic 6, so I started programming as a
hobby.

When I was sixteen I was working in a cybercafe at night and I took advantage of
the free time to get involved with free software and web development. I was
working  in the cybercafe for two years till I finished middle school and during
that time I also got involved in infrastructure, computer security and low-level
development by using microcontrollers. I had some minor jobs as a freelance
developer, including creating coorporative websites and a travel management
system for a rent-a-car shop.

Another of my interests during the middle school were reading, writing and
philosophy. Indeed, I participated in philosophy competitions and I used to
write a blog where I met a lot of people with similar interests. When I finished
middle school I decided to continue working in software development since it was
my hobby and occupation. At the same time my curiosity about human beings
encouraged me to start a university carrier aligned to my other passions:
writing and studying cultures as an expression of human experience.

However, I deferred the humanities career some years in order to learn and focus
on software development as my main profession. Finally, after a couple of years
I started the career Social and Cultural Anthropology at the National University
of San Martín. This career strengthens my other interests: travelling to new
places, talking to people in order to get to know how they live, learning about
popular art as the expression of people's morality, singing and dancing, among
others.

Nowadays all these activities complement my passion for software development and
they are translated into the software development for organizations and social
movements engaged with the communities' real problems.

---

## Languages

* Spanish (mother tongue)

* English (upper-intermediate)

* Esperanto (progresanta)

---

## Experience in Software Development

### Freelance (2004 - 2006)

My first jobs were as a freelance programmer. Some projects to mention are the
coorporative website for the Labyes Laboratory and a travel management system
for a rent-a-car shop developed in Visual Basic. At the same time I was also
developing several sites by using Wordpress and Drupal.

*Technologies: PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Basic, MS Access, Symfony 1.0*

### Netic infoservicios (2006)

After finishing middle-school I started working as a Visual Basic programmer at
a very small business which had a product that consisted in performing search
engine optimizations (SEO). I was the only programmer there and with only few
tools I had to solve some architectural and distribution problems. The product
was a suite with a couple of applications interacting with one another in order
to generate micro- sites with different contents. This suite was distributed as
a self-contained installation package. I left this job because my boss asked me
to emit illegal receipts.

*Technologies: Visual Basic, MS Access,
[NSIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nullsoft_Scriptable_Install_System)*

### W3americas (2006 - 2007)

My next job was at W3, a system consulting company focused on web development
and maintenance for third party customers. I worked on the progressive
maintenance of the website for Citibank Brasil. I participated in the site's
full redesign, mainly developing components that required integration with
third- party services like stock exchange tables and currency values, among
others. It was my first direct experience with customers, since I often had to
coordinate tasks with them. In my free time I learnt about system design
principles and Java web applications development. After the site's redesign I
left this company because it became boring and there was no development at all,
only maintenance.

*Technologies: SourceSafe, Perl, HTML, CSS, JavaScript*

### CDA (2007 - 2009)

After leaving W3 I started working as Java programmer in CDA, an HR consulting
company. I worked in the development of internal HR systems such as admissions,
retirements, vacations, etc., so I learnt about HR processes. I also had the
chance to bootstrap a project: a system to implement SOX controls in order to
trace processes within a local bank. Once finished, I left this job because the
heads of the system development area mistreated people. I learnt about technical
management of development projects, gathered experience in different Java
technologies, and gained expertise in the resolution of infrastructure problems
such as storage, load balancing, packaging and distribution of Java
applications.

*Technologies: SVN, Ant, Java EE (v1.4/1.6 + Web Services), Sybase DB, Ibatis,
Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Flex (ActionScript 3, Cairngorm)*

### Globant (2009 - 2013)

My next job was at Globant, another HR consulting company. I entered the company
as a web developer for JWT. The project consisted in a full reengineering of a
content management system. It organized digital content such as documents,
images and videos, and one of the main requirements was to be able to reuse the
same platform for different customers; it should be customizable and scalable so
JWT could be able to resell the product to their customers. Unlike CDA where I
worked with a classical request/response application model, we used a service-
oriented application model in this project, so most part of the application
responsibility was delegated to frontend where I was working.

Here I had my first experience coordinating a development team for JWT. We
started a new project to solve a problem related to JWT agencies fragmentation
around the world. Agencies from different parts of the world would be able to
submit creative ideas to projects, interact with people, share content and get
to know other people's jobs through a social network for projects. In order to
encourage participation, ideas for a project were voted by colleagues so the
winner idea would be implemented. Before the beginning I had to estimate the
whole effort, create the base infrastructure to let the team work on the source
code and agree with the customer how we should deliver and show advances of the
project. Once started, my role consisted in estimating the different components
with the team, splitting them into *sprints*, talking to the customer and, of
course, coding with the team and helping to solve technical issues.

This project was a success and one of my most valuable experiences was that when
dealing with applications with complex flows, the service-oriented programming
may look like an advantage in the beginning, but maintaining an anemic domain
actually is very expensive on the long run and therefore it is unfeasible for
products that need a constant and long-term evolution, exceptions apart. I
learnt to manage AWS services and solve complex infrastructure problems like
managing distributed search indexes.

After more than two years working for JWT I started to deal with a new customer
of the company: 55social. The challenge was to build a social media management
platform to make the content management and marketing campaings easier in social
networks. Thanks to a small and excellent development team the product was
online after only four months. After two years of development, the company left
Globant and I continued working for 55social.

*Technologies: SVN, GIT, Maven, Java EE, MySQL, JackRabbit, Hibernate, Spring
MVC, jawr, Freemarker, YahooUI, AWS, ImageMagick, FFMPeg*

### 55Social (since 2013)

Since then I have been working at 55social, a company whose main market is
digital agencies from Brazil. We chose a hybrid request/response programming
model with a rich front-end without functional responsibilities. As design
practices we used *domain driven design* and TDD. As organizing principles we
used the Martin Fowler's Rule of Three for refactoring, the Robert Martin's
*Single Responsibility Principle* and dependency injection.

The work is feature-oriented and we set commitment by sprints. As feature
development time may vary, we split up sprints into checkpoints so we could
focus on specific aspects of the feature development and thus we were able to
show concrete progress.

While I was at Globant and 55social I was responsible for job interviews and I
prepared both workshops and trainings.

*Technologies: GIT, Maven, Java EE, Hibernate, Spring MVC,
[Katari](https://github.com/katari/Katari), Elastic Search, Freemarker, Social
APIs (Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus), jQuery UI,
[Histone](https://github.com/MegafonWebLab/histone-javascript),
[OOCSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OOCSS), AWS*

### Software libre

I developed, maintained and collaborated in different free software projects
during many years. The logic behind a free software organization is quite
different from the business logic, so the experience managing both kind of
projects helped me to develop a critical view of leadership, mainly oriented to
problem resolution through collaboration. Many of the projects I started no
longer exist, but there are a couple of them that still are published on Github
and I would like to comment on the ones I consider more relevant.

#### I stop it (Yo los paro)

[Yo los paro](http://yolosparo.org) is a campaign to warn people about
irregularities in the new argentinian Fuel Law that was finally approved in
2014. The campaign goal was to promote people's direct participation, so without
any kind of registration they could send messages to the national legislatives.
The long-term goal is to transform this single campaign into a [direct
participation platform](https://github.com/piratas-
ar/yolosparo/tree/feature/support- multiple-campaigns).

* [Github Repository](https://github.com/piratas-ar/yolosparo)
* [Site](http://yolosparo.org)

*Technologies: Grunt, JavaScript (NodeJS), MySQL, ExpressJS, Handlebars*

#### Argentine congress data importer

[ogov-importer](https://github.com/seykron/ogov-importer) retrieves all bills
and their votes from the Argentine National Congress since 2001 until nowadays,
the list of current legislatives and the committees' meetings and agendas, among
other things. The importer is generic and it is designed to make a fast and
efficient crawling of any site.

* [Github Repository](https://github.com/seykron/ogov-importer)

*Technologies: Grunt, JavaScript (NodeJS),
[Cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio)*

#### Paperhub

[Paperhub](https://github.com/seykron/paperhub) is a proof of concept of a
collaborative document editor reading documents from Github. It uses
[etherpad](http://etherpad.org/) as editor and [pandoc](http://pandoc.org/) to
export documents to PDF.

* [Github Repository](https://github.com/seykron/paperhub)

*Technologies: JavaScript (NodeJS), Memcached, ExpressJS, Handlebars, Github
API*

#### IRC client API

[irc-client-api](https://github.com/seykron/irc-client-api) allows to connect to
IRC servers from the web browser through a low-level API. It supports different
transports, so it might be adapted to different devices and environments.

* [Github Repository](https://github.com/seykron/irc-client-api)

*Technologies: Grunt, JavaScript (NodeJS), WebSockets*

#### Pirate crew

[Pirate crew](https://github.com/piratas-ar/pirate-crew) is a secure
registration form whose main goal is to allow people to register while it
protects the data so no one with physical access to the server can read it. It
encrypts the person's information in the browser with a public key, and the
underlying private key is supposed to be splitted into many pieces and
distributed by different people.

* [Github Repository](https://github.com/piratas-ar/pirate-crew)

*Technologies: JavaScript (NodeJS), ExpressJS, Handlebars, OpenPGP.js*

---

## Formal Education

* National University of San Martín (ongoing) - *Social and Cultural
Anthropology*

* E.N.E.T N°17 D.E. 20 (2001 - 2006) - *Electronic Technician*

* Alfonsina Storni (Primary School)

---

## Contact

You can contact me by email to [matt@spiria.me](mailto:matt@spiria.me). Personal
references on request.

