------------------------------------------------------------------------

About me
--------

I am a software developer with more than ten years of experience in the
software industry. I am a senior developer specialized in web
applications. I developed web sites, classic request/response
applications, rich applications with heavy UX and components, backend
services, infrastructure services like queues and caches, business
intelligence and data processing applications, among others. I worked
with different architectures such as web services (SOAP), microservices
(REST), web sockets, classic request/response (MVC, streaming), among
others. I have experience with third party APIs and data sources
integration.

Regarding backend development, I worked with several stacks of
frameworks in ~~PHP~~, Java, Scala, Kotlin and NodeJS. Some of the
problems that I have solved are user and API authentication, session
management, transactions, data access, free text search, asynchronous
services interoperation, static resources (JavaScript, CSS, images,
videos, etc.) management and compression, language support,
geolocalization, processing and data clustering, content storage,
application and data security, among others.

Regarding frontend development, I think it is more important the
software architecture than mastering specific frameworks. Some of the
architecture problems I have solved are the design of reusable
components, resources optimization to achieve a good user experience,
cross-domain operations management, customization, progressive
development and user-based features, state management and persistence,
language support, among others. I have worked with frameworks and
utilities such as jQuery, underscore.js, backbone, angularjs,
knockoutjs, jqueryUI, and lessCSS.

I endorse team work and quality assurance practices: design and develop
based on principles, good practices and conventions, peer review of code
and architecture, build common knowledge talking about how to build
better solutions, adopt organization methodologies when necessary. I
think than the lean development principle "people over processes" is the
key to success in any project.

I support the free software philosophy. I am involved in the free
software community and I try to contribute when it is possible. In my
free time I build social-oriented software like open government, social
organization, and decision making software.

<div class="printable">

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Links
-----

-   Github: https://github.com/seykron

-   Resume: http://seykron.github.io/cv

-   Twitter: https://twitter.com/matias\_mi

</div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Languages
---------

-   Spanish (mother tongue)

-   English (upper-intermediate)

-   Esperanto (progresanta)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Experience in Software Development
----------------------------------

### Freelance (2004 - 2006)

Mis primeros trabajos fueron como freelance. Entre los proyectos
destacables estuvieron el sitio corporativo del laboratorio Labyes y un
sistema de gestión de viajes para una remisería en Visual Basic. En esta
misma época también desarrollé varios sitios utilizando Wordpress y
Drupal.

My first jobs were as freelance programmer. Some projects to mention are
the corporative website for Labyes Laboratory and a Visual Basic-based
travel management system for a local rent-a-car shop. I developed
several sites by using Wordpress and Drupal.

*Tecnologías: PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Basic, MS Access,
Symfony 1.0*

### Netic infoservicios (2006)

Luego de finalizar la escuela secundaria, comencé a trabajar como
programador Visual Basic en una pequeña empresa que vendía un producto
de SEO (posicionamiento en motores de búsqueda). En esta empresa yo era
el único programador y con muy pocas herramientas tuve que resolver
problemas de arquitectura y distribución. El producto era una suite de
aplicaciones que interactuaban entre ellas para generar micrositios con
diferentes contenidos, y se distribuía como un paquete instalable.

After finishing the middle-school I worked as Visual Basic programmer at
a small company writing software for search engine optimization (SEO). I
had to solve several architecture and distribution problems. The product
was a static site generator. It consisted of several applications, each
one in charge of generating part of the static site. This suite was
distributed as a self-contained installation package.

*Technologies: Visual Basic, MS Access,
[NSIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nullsoft_Scriptable_Install_System)*

### W3americas (2006 - 2007)

My next job was at W3, a system consulting company focused on web
development and sites maintenance for third party customers. I worked on
the progressive maintenance of Citibank Brasil website. I was involved
in the site's full redesign, mainly developing components that required
integration with third- party services like stock exchange tables and
currency values, among others.

It was my first direct experience with customers, since I often had to
coordinate tasks with them. In my free time I did learn software
architecture and Java web applications development. After the site's
redesign I left this company because it became boring and there was no
development at all, only maintenance.

*Technologies: SourceSafe, Perl, HTML, CSS, JavaScript*

### CDA (2007 - 2009)

After leaving W3 I worked as Java programmer in CDA, an HR consulting
company. I was involved in the development of internal HR systems such
as admissions, retirements, vacations, etc. I did learn a lot about HR
processes. Some challenges were to integrate several databases, to
ensure data consistency among different data sources, and to learn
Adoble Flex since it was a requirement to develop the frontend with this
technology. I developed the backend using Java 1.6, Struts MVC and web
services in the application layer, and Ibatis in the data access layer.

I also had the chance to bootstrap a new project for a local bank. It
was an administrative audit software that implemented SOX controls in
order to ensure internal processes accountability. Some challenges were
to work with Java 1.4, a database without data integrity check support
(a legacy version of Sybase), and a programming model required by the
bank based on stored procedures. I developed the frontend using JSP. I
did learn about technical management, and I solve infrastructure
problems such as data access, storage and packaging and distribution of
Java applications.

*Tecnologías: SVN, Ant, Java EE (v1.4/1.6 + Web Services), Sybase DB,
Ibatis, Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Flex (ActionScript 3,
Cairngorm), Websphere*

### Globant (2009 - 2013)

Mi siguiente trabajo fue en Globant, otra consultora de recursos
humanos. Entré como desarrollador web a un proyecto de JWT, un cliente
de la consultora. El proyecto consistía en una reingeniería completa de
un sistema de manejo de contenido. El sistema organizaba contenido
digital como documentos, imágenes, y videos, y uno de los requisitos era
que pudiera reutilizarse para diferentes clientes de la agencia, de
manera que JWT pudiera revenderle el almacenamiento y la gestión de
contenido a sus clientes. A diferencia de CDA donde trabajaba con un
modelo de programación request/response clásico, en este proyecto conocí
un modelo de programación orientado a servicios, donde gran parte de la
responsabilidad de la aplicación estaba delegada en el frontend.

En Globant también tuve mi primera experiencia coordinando un equipo de
desarrollo para JWT. Comenzamos un nuevo proyecto que buscaba resolver
el problema de la fragmentación entre las agencias de JWT. A través de
una red social de proyectos de marketing, las agencias en distintas
partes del mundo podían presentar ideas creativas para estos proyectos,
interactuar entre ellas, compartir contenido y conocer el trabajo de las
demás. Para fomentar la participación, las ideas eran votadas por los
mismos usuarios de la comunidad de JWT, y la más votada era la idea que
se realizaría. Mi rol antes de comenzar el proyecto consistió en estimar
el esfuerzo total del proyecto, configurar la infraestructura base para
que el equipo pudiera trabajar sobre el código y acordar con el cliente
la modalidad de entrega y seguimiento del proyecto. Mi rol dentro del
proyecto era estimar junto al equipo los distintos componentes y
organizar las estimaciones en *sprints*, hablar con el cliente y, por
supuesto, programar a la par del equipo y destrabar los problemas
técnicos que fueran surgiendo.

Este último proyecto terminó muy bien, y uno de los mayores aprendizajes
fue que cuando se trata de aplicaciones con flows complejos el modelo de
programación orientado a servicios puede parecer una ventaja al
principio, pero a mediano plazo el mantenimiento de un *anemic domain*
tiene un costo altísimo y se vuelve inviable para productos que
necesitan una evolución constante y a largo plazo, salvo excepciones.
También aprendí a gestionar servicios de AWS y a resolver problemas de
infraestructura más complejos como el manejo de índices de búsqueda
distribuídos.

Luego de más de dos años de trabajar con JWT, comencé a trabajar con un
nuevo cliente de la consultora: 55social. El desafío era construir una
plataforma de social media management para facilitar la gestión de
contenido y campañas de marketing en redes sociales. Gracias a un
pequeño y excelente equipo de desarrollo la primera versión del producto
estuvo online en cuatro meses. Luego de dos años de desarrollo, la
empresa se desvinculó de Globant y yo seguí trabajando para ellos.

*Tecnologías: SVN, GIT, Maven, Java EE, MySQL, JackRabbit, Hibernate,
Spring MVC, jawr, Freemarker, YahooUI, AWS, ImageMagick, FFMPeg*

### 55Social (since 2013)

55social fue una empresa de marketing digital cuyo mercado principal
eran las agencias digitales de Brasil. La aplicación consistía en un
gestor de contenido para crear y publicar campañas en Facebook, un
gestor de múltiples cuentas para community management, y un sistema de
métricas que se integraba con Facebook y Google Analytics para analizar
el impacto de las campañas.

Trabajé como desarrollador frontend y backend en el gestor de campañas y
el motor de métricas respectivamente. En frontend el desafío fue generar
un entorno de diseño muy personalizable para que agentes de marketing
pudieran construir campañas en Facebook solamente configurando una serie
de widgets. En cuanto al backend, el desafío fue generar un motor de
métricas que pudiera extraer datos y procesarlos para mostrar diferentes
tipos de gráficos que permitían analizar el impacto de las campañas.

Durante casi toda mi experiencia en Globant y 55social también fui
entrevistador y dicté varios talleres y capacitaciones sobre desarrollo
web.

Dejé 55social porque la empresa nunca llegó al break event y tuvo que
cerrar.

*Tecnologías: GIT, Maven, Java EE, Hibernate, Spring MVC,
[Katari](https://github.com/katari/Katari), Elastic Search, Freemarker,
Social APIs (Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus), jQuery UI,
[Histone](https://github.com/MegafonWebLab/histone-javascript),
[OOCSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OOCSS), AWS*

### Despegar.com (2015 - ahora)

Despegar.com es una agencia online de viajes. Trabajé exclusivamente en
backend desarrollando microservicios.

Los primeros dos años trabajé en el sector de ventas de vuelos. Tuve la
oportunidad de reescribir el motor de booking de vuelos en Scala. Los
desafíos fueron aprender el lenguaje, orquestar el flujo de booking que
es considerablemente complejo, y soportar el throughput de ventas.

En la actualidad trabajo en el sector de postventa de vuelos,
desarrollando el sistema de detección y procesamiento de cambios
involuntarios o reprogramaciones de vuelos. Los desafíos son el manejo
del flujo asincrónico (los proveedores notifican las reprogramaciones
asincrónicamente), el manejo de fallos frente al usuario, y el análisis
de datos de los proveedores (la consistencia es eventual ya que depende
de las operaciones de las aerolineas).

### Software libre

I developed, maintained and collaborated in different free software
projects during many years. The logic behind a free software
organization is quite different from the business logic, so the
experience managing both kind of projects helped me to develop a
critical view of leadership, mainly oriented to problem resolution
through collaboration. Many of the projects I started no longer exist,
but there are a couple of them that still are published on Github and I
would like to comment on the ones I consider more relevant.

#### I stop it (Yo los paro)

[Yo los paro](http://yolosparo.org) is a campaign to warn people about
irregularities in the new argentinian Fuel Law that was finally approved
in 2014. The campaign goal was to promote people's direct participation,
so without any kind of registration they could send messages to the
national legislatives. The long-term goal is to transform this single
campaign into a [direct participation
platform](https://github.com/piratas-%20ar/yolosparo/tree/feature/support-%20multiple-campaigns).

-   [Github Repository](https://github.com/piratas-ar/yolosparo)
-   [Site](http://yolosparo.org)

*Technologies: Grunt, JavaScript (NodeJS), MySQL, ExpressJS, Handlebars*

#### Argentine congress data importer

[ogov-importer](https://github.com/seykron/ogov-importer) retrieves all
bills and their votes from the Argentine National Congress since 2001
until nowadays, the list of current legislatives and the committees'
meetings and agendas, among other things. The importer is generic and it
is designed to make a fast and efficient crawling of any site.

-   [Github Repository](https://github.com/seykron/ogov-importer)

*Technologies: Grunt, JavaScript (NodeJS),
[Cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio)*

#### Paperhub

[Paperhub](https://github.com/seykron/paperhub) is a proof of concept of
a collaborative document editor reading documents from Github. It uses
[etherpad](http://etherpad.org/) as editor and
[pandoc](http://pandoc.org/) to export documents to PDF.

-   [Github Repository](https://github.com/seykron/paperhub)

*Technologies: JavaScript (NodeJS), Memcached, ExpressJS, Handlebars,
Github API*

#### IRC client API

[irc-client-api](https://github.com/seykron/irc-client-api) allows to
connect to IRC servers from the web browser through a low-level API. It
supports different transports, so it might be adapted to different
devices and environments.

-   [Github Repository](https://github.com/seykron/irc-client-api)

*Technologies: Grunt, JavaScript (NodeJS), WebSockets*

#### Pirate crew

[Pirate crew](https://github.com/piratas-ar/pirate-crew) is a secure
registration form whose main goal is to allow people to register while
it protects the data so no one with physical access to the server can
read it. It encrypts the person's information in the browser with a
public key, and the underlying private key is supposed to be splitted
into many pieces and distributed by different people.

-   [Github Repository](https://github.com/piratas-ar/pirate-crew)

*Technologies: JavaScript (NodeJS), ExpressJS, Handlebars, OpenPGP.js*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Formal Education
----------------

-   National University of San Martín (ongoing) - *Social and Cultural
    Anthropology*

-   E.N.E.T N°17 D.E. 20 (2001 - 2006) - *Electronic Technician*

-   Alfonsina Storni (Primary School)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contact
-------

You can contact me by email to <matt@spiria.me>. Personal references on
request.
